Let's get directly into the topic.
So we will talk about design patterns,
right?
So, let's start with the definition,
what's a design pattern?
So, let me, before reading this,
the simplest way to analyze or
define a design pattern is like
a recipe to solve a problem, okay?
So, but it's a reusable template for
solving common software design problems,
enhancing covid ability and efficiency and
creating a common vocabulary.
I think the last part is important, so
when we are using a design pattern,
we are naming that pattern.
And then we can talk to our colleagues and
say, hey, I'm going to implement x
pattern, and the other colleague might
immediately understand what I'm saying.
So, design patterns
are creating vocabulary,
common vocabulary among developers, okay?
And that's one of the important
parts of using design partners as,
apart from solving the problem, right?
The idea is to solve a problem.
So most of the time we have a problem.
And if you are a JavaScript developer and
you have experience doing
Vanilla JavaScript apps,
then you have probably encountered
a lot of problems, that you're,
a lot of questions like, I have
a problem here, how should I solve this?
Because when I'm using React,
or when I'm using Angular,
there is solved in this or that way.
But now, in Vanilla JavaScript,
I don't have a way to do that based on
the framework, because there is no
framework I can do whatever I want.
So the design pattern will
guide me through a path
to actually solve the problem.
Design patterns are actually coming from
architecture from the 70s, the term,
the idea on architecture when you were
building, I don't know, an apartment.
You are designing an apartment, they were
designed patterns for solving issues.
For example, let's say,
I have a corner that is really small,
I need to put a bathroom there.
Okay, so someone created a design
pattern for that saying, okay,
maybe you should put the toilet here,
and then the door there, and so on.
That was the design pattern,
was a recipe, okay, for
architects when they were
designing buildings, and
apartments, and houses,
the idea come from there from the 70s.
And then, actually it's exactly,
I think, 30 years ago.
30 years ago, this book appear for
software design patterns,
element of reusable
object oriented software.
So, this book
Took the idea of design patterns
into software development, okay?
It was the first one that
was talking about that and
if you have heard about the Gang of Four,
okay?
Gang of Four is actually these four
authors, authors that were actually
publishing this book, and they created
here a lot of the design patterns.
The latest version is actually 23
design patterns on software design,
so this is not our web apps,
it was 30 years ago before the web,
before JavaScript actually close to that.
But it's before we were actually
using JavaScript for web apps.
So, it was, but it was for
object oriented software, okay?
So, the original idea and most of these
design patterns were prepared and
organized for an object oriented language.
Maybe I have a question for you.
Is JavaScript an object-oriented
language or not?
Only if you mean to it.
Only if you're mean to it, well,
that's a good answer, actually.
So, I mean, it's not a strict
object-oriented language,
it's prototype-based.
We can emulate most of the object-oriented
ideas, most of them, not all of them.
Even with modern ECMAScript, for
example, you cannot quickly or
easily emulate protected properties or
methods,
that's one thing that it's
almost impossible to create.
But anyway, because JavaScript is not
really an object-oriented software.
If you read this book, I mean, you may
want to implement some of those design
patterns, and
you will find some issues, okay?
So have that in mind.
But anyway, this book was the, let's say,
initial push into talking about design
patterns with web-making software.